# Offline 4e Compendium v4 High Level Design Doc #

Last updated: 2016-07-06

## 1. Introduction ##
### 1.1 Background ###
This product is for retrieving entries from official compendium of D&D 4th edition, store them locally, and let users browse and search them offline.

This product does not contain any copyrighted data by itself,
and using the product does not violate copyright either.
Copyright is violated only when the saved data is redistributed.

### 1.2 Goals ###

Downloader:
1. A Java GUI program (single jar) that takes a login and download compendium entries.
2. Handles transform and indexing of downloaded data for viewer consumption.
3. Save raw downloaded data to database; transform and index can be enhanced by app update.
4. Can export a complete viewer solution by itself.
5. No multi-lingual.  Target audance should all read English.

Viewer:
1. A HTML file that loads jsonp data from subdirectory.
2. Provide advanced search capability such as OR search, exclude term, phase search, regex search.
3. Responsive layout that fit mobile, pad, and desktop.
4. Multiple entry clipboard for storing .
5. Auto-lookup between entries (popup, can expand to be the main entry).
6. Printer and keyboard friendly.
7. No multi-lingual.  Data is *lots of* English, keep UI consistent with data.

## 2. Design ##
### 2.1 Downloader Screens ###

The downloader use a tabbed page design with no menu or bar.
It has three states:
 * Idle
 * Downloading
 * Saving

Data is downloaded by running a WebView, and stored raw in SQLite database using SQLJet.
Both entry and listing are stored.  Category is fixed; no point make it dynamic, now that 4e has ceased development.

1. Data screen
 * [Label] Status
 * [List] Category list, downloaded / saved, and total
 * [Button] Start Download / Stop Download / Stop Save
 * [Button] View data (greyed if zero data)

2. Download screen
 * All controls disabled when not idle.
 * [Label] Status / message
 * [Text input] Login name
 * [Text input] Login password
 * [Button] Start Download (go to data screen)

3. Option screen
 * [Number input] Download interval
 * [Number input] Retry count
 * [Number input] Agent string
 * [Checkbox] Show debug tabs
 * [Button] Clear data (disabled when downloading)

4. Log screen (Debug)
 * [Text area] Execution Log

5. WebView screen (Debug)
 * [WebView] The view actually used to download data.
 
6. License screen
 * [HTML area] License

### 2.2 Viewer Screens ###

The viewer is an app like offline webpage with multiple screens,
with a left sliding menu.

1. Fixed header bar
 * [Button] Menu (mobile only)
 * [Button] Top
 * Title
 * [Button] Dynamic nav button depending on page
 * [Button] Back / Forward (self-managed, not use browser history)

2. Menu items
 * Search (persist previous state)
 * My Lists
 * PC resources (jump to search screen)
 * DM resources (jump to search screen)
 * [Checkbox] Options - Highlight & Entry popup & Day/Night mode
 * About

3. Search screen
 * [Nav Button] Star - add search result to current or new list
 * [Text] Search input
 * [Toggle] Seach name / Search full
 * [List] Category to search (Grouped by PC and DM)
 * [List] Filter (If single category)
 * [Button] View all
 * [List] Search result (updated live)
 * Search state is saved on navigation

4. Entry screen (single or multiple)
 * [Nav Button] Star - add entry to current or new list
 * [List] Entries to view

5. List screen
 * [Nav Button] Plus / Minus - new, clone, clear, delete, or export list
 * [Select] All lists
 * [List] Entries of current list
 * [Handle] Drag and drop to reorder (each entry)
 * [Button] Delete (each entry)
 * [Button] Add entry (turns into textbox, name only)

6. About screen
 * Version
 * Link to Github
 * License
 
## 3. Data ##
### 3.1. Downloader raw data ###

These data are stored by downloader in SQLite.

When the downloader generate a viewer, it well compile, sort, and save the raw data into viewer's format.

1. Config (store database version; not much use)
 * key
 * value

2. Category list (fixed)
 * id (Compendium id)
 * name
 * count (total entry, not saved entry; -1 until whole entry listing is saved)
 * order (for export)
 * flelds (CSV Headers)

3. Entry list by category
 * id (Compendium id)
 * name
 * fields (CSV row of list field, except name)
 * data (Raw HTML)

### 3.1. Viewer data ###

Viewer data is hieracial and id in UTF-8.

Category is loaded to main thread and data thread on load.
All non-main threads are shared worker, to support data sharing in multiple tab.

Listing is loaded to data thread lazily with Promise.
Data is loaded to data thread lazily with Promise, stored in a WeakMap.
When idle, the data thread will clean up old text, allowing memory to drop, until all text are dropped.

Name index is loaded to name worker, for instant search.
Full text index is loaded by fulltext worker lazily, and is released on idle.

1. Listing
 * id
 * name
 * field_headess
 * entries
   * id
   * name
   * fields as simple propery
   * last access date
   * data key

2. Entry (weakmap)
  * entry data key => data

3. Name list
 * id
 * name
 * category

4. Search index
 * id
 * category
 * full text (without flavour text, without item in item set)